= Cost functions =

The package 'modtools' contains cost functions which can be used in several functions (e.g. cv.glm, bootvalid,etc.). three functions are specifically dedicated to the binary data.

== Arguments ==
the cost functions are based on four arguments: 
 * y is a numerical vector corresponding to the obsevred values.
 * yhat is a numerical vector corresponding to the expected values.
 * mu is a numerical vector corresponding to the expected values.
 * cutoff is a numerical value in the range (0,1) corresponding to the threshold to transform the values 'mu' into binary vector. This last argument is only used for binary data.

== Continuous data ==

=== Functions ===

{{{
costAVER(y, yhat = 0)
costMAE(y, yhat = 0)
costMSE(y, yhat = 0)
costRMSE(y, yhat = 0)
costSlope(y, yhat)
costOri(y, yhat)
costR2(y, yhat)
}}}

=== Examples ===


== Binary data ==

=== Functions ===

{{{
costBIN(y, mu = 0, cutoff = 0.5)
costKappa(y, yhat, cutoff = 0.5)
costDA(y,yhat, cutoff = 0.5)
}}}

=== Examples ===

== Categorical data ==

=== Functions ===
Two cost functions are proposed for the performance analysis with multi-category data:
{{{
costDA2 <- function(y,yhat)
costKappa2 <- function(y,yhat,...)
}}}
Two additional cost functions are proposed for the performance analysis with posterior probabilities associated with multi-category data:
{{{
costEntropy <- function(x)
costGini <- function(x)
}}}

=== Examples ===

== References ==
 * Davidson A.C. & Hinkley D.V. (1997) Standard deviation from the multivariate delta method. Booststrad Methods and Their Application, 45-46 (see http://statwww.epfl.ch/davison/BMA/).
 * Efron, B. and Tibshirani, R. (1993) An Introduction to the Bootstrap. Chapman & Hall.
 * Harrell FE (2001)  Regression Modeling Strategies With Applications to Linear Models, Logistic Regression, and Survival Analysis . New York: Springer.
 * Faraway J.J. (2006) Extending Linear Models with R: Generalized Linear, Mixed Effects and Nonparametric Regression Models. Chapman & Hall/CRC.